for more on locating and catching
vagabond crappies throughout the season
be sure to check out crappies on the
move and other installments in the
angling edge instructional DVD
collection available at angling edge
comm crappies are one of the most widely
distributed fish species in north
america ranging from southern canada to
northern Mexico throughout the eastern
United States with numerous
introductions into Western waters from
small northern natural lakes to massive
southern impoundments crappies still
behave like crappies and their classic
seasonal movements are predictable no
matter where you hunt for them
those are frappys and I don't know
anybody anybody whether you're a muskie
fisherman a walleye fisherman big bass
fisherman when you come up on a big
bunch of trapeze like this even Phil
Sima del puts down the swim bait rod and
says let's stop for a little while catch
some crappies we're taking advantage of
the opportunity
you know we're up here early spring
we're right before April and we're
coming up on these big spawning flats
and we were just out on the outside edge
with these brake lines ripping for bass
and both of us are sitting there go now
let's go up here and you know look up on
this flap and be surprised that water
temperature gets right around 58 to 62
you know start looking at these flats
with this buck brush out here and you'll
find little teeny pods of crappie laid
out and they're you know they're on
those open areas where there's a lot of
little sandy bars and rock piles and you
come up here and you know just just look
out here and throw a little jig out here
through the brush a lot of times you
don't even see them out there until they
actually take your rod down I'm you
ain't coming in here with lightly
crappie girl yeah you know we're
flipping 6 pound test line look at it
look at that slab though you know I find
it really interesting you know all the
time I've been fishing with you and all
these legs here in the southern southern
area I haven't seen anybody fishing
trappers reservoir crappie seasonal
movement is fairly predictable in spring
during the spawn crappie I'll
concentrate on shallow flats with wood
cover on it in like 2 to 6 foot of water
depending on water clarity spawning
occurs when water temperature reaches
the high 50s to low 63
after spawning crappie shipped out to
the first major drop-off on a creek or
river channel electronics are vital to
find suspended crappies in and around
cover on his channel ledges Lake fall
throughout the winter crappie school
heavily in depths of 30 to his deepest
50 feet this is prime time for getting
on monster school to keep proudly all
you got to do is what
small jigs are primary baits for crappie
whether it's spring summer or fall for
shallow crop is one of my favorites as a
BMC dominate or miracle jig in the 1/16
ounce size
I prefer bright colors like white shark
rusyn think small BMC tinsel end or hot
skirt jigs are some other good choices
interestingly as the season progresses
and the fish move deeper we fish the
exact same base but in heavier sizes one
tip for fishing wooden brush conditions
is to simply take a pliers and close the
foot gap slightly it'd be surprised at
how snag resistant these kids actually
can be like the Salvation Army grow look
at that fish
are you looking for a little something a
different different to do this winter
come on down in California me and Doyle
are about the only ones that are doing
that not all these lakes in the entire
southern tail area what an overlooked
opportunity man who for more on locating
and catching vagabond crappies
throughout the season be sure to check
out crappies on the move and other
installments in the angling edge
instructional DVD collection available
at angling edge com